Frequently Asked Questions about "Xenocide: the roguelike".

1. Who creates Xenocide?
2. Where can I find the source code?
3. Why updates aren't frequent?
4. Why the game screen looks so weird?
5. Is there a version for <platform name here>?
6. How Xenocide is written?
7. Is there a graphical version of Xenocide?
8. Where can I find the latest version of Xenocide?
9. Why the game runs so slow???
10. The game hanged! Why and what to do?
11. When I drop a number of items, like ammo, items don't connect on the ground into a single package. Why?
12. What does experience means?
13. How can I help?
14. Can I play without numeric pad (laptop)? Can I remap keys?
15. The game is too hard. Any tips?

1. Who creates Xenocide?

Xenocide is written by Jakub Debski from Poland, since May 2002.
The game random number generator developed by Makoto
Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura.
The music and sound effects are taken from internet websites.
On these websites the sounds were marked as "free".
If anyone complains about rights, I can remove or change something.

Thanks go to Stephen Pasquella for constructive discussions,
nice monster descriptions, help with the story and to Antti Hukkanen
for emails so long, that I have no time to answer :)

To contact the author write to: debski.jakub@wp.pl, or use
the guestbook on the website for public compliments ;)

2. Where can I find the source code?

http://xeno.chaosforge.org

3. Why updates aren't frequent?

I'm a full-time programmer. After work I'm too tired to code anything
for myself, so I write Xenocide usually only during weekends. 
Writing this game is not the only thing I do. I have my private life
and a lot of other hobbies. I spend on Xenocide as much time as I can,
usually it is one or two weekends monthly.

4. Why the game screen looks so weird?

Xenocide requires console at least 80 columns x 50 lines.
If your console isn't big enough, the screen will look weird.
There should be a message if your console is too small.

5. Is there a version for <platform name here>?

For now there are binary version for Windows.
Linux version can be compiled. DOS version is no longer supported.
If anyone wants to have a version for his platform, has to prove
me, that can and want to create such version. I can send
a simple project to compile. It requires modern C++ compiler
(like GCC) with STL support (lists, maps and strings are used).
Curses library is wrapped by my functions and can be easily
replaced.

6. How Xenocide is written?

Xenocide is written in C++ using Microsoft Visual C++ 2005
I use only basic features of STL, to support porting, and basic
functions of Curses library (console output), for the same reason.
For now the source code has about 710KB.

7. Is there a graphical version of Xenocide?

Not, there isn't. My graphics skills aren't too good to create dreamed
graphic for the game and I have no so much time to write the game
and do the graphic. If you're interested in help, please, contact me.
How would I image graphics? Do you know old Bitmap Brothers games -
"Chaos Engine" or "Speedball 2"? I'd like to have this style of
graphics... No manga style please.

8. Where can I find the latest version of Xenocide?

http://xeno.chaosforge.org

9. Why the game runs so slow???

If the game runs very slow, you are probalby running Windows version.
The slowness is caused by Windows port of PDCurses.
Try the DOS version (it works fine under Windows 9x/ME/2K/XP).
Running DOS version in Windows press LEFT ALT + ENTER to turn the full-screen on.

If the game still works slow, maybe it's time to upgrade your computer? :)

10. The game hanged! Why and what to do?

Maybe there's something wrong in the source code, maybe it's caused by PDCurses library.
Hit Space Key a few times - maybe something will show up.

11. When I drop a number of items, like ammo, items don't connect on the ground into a single package. Why?

Because of implementation. It will be changed probably, so don't report it as a bug.

12. What does experience means?

"Free skill points" are points that can be allocated to improve your
skills. Every time you use a skill, you train it a bit, but only when
you have "free skill points". The other name for it could be:
"unallocated experience", because points are equal to experience.

"Adaptation points" are given every time you reach a new level.
These points describe your abilility to modify yourself
in places like "Genetic Lab" or to place implants in your body (not
implemented yet). Having unallocated "adaptation points" will cause
very slowly improvement of stats (not implemented yet).

13. How can I help?

If you like this game, propagate it! Write articles about it, show it to your friends or make a fan website :)
If you know C++ you can join me in development.

14. Can I play without numeric pad (laptop)? Can I remap keys?

You can. In "data/keyboard.def" file you can redefine keyboard settings.
You can also choose a predefined keyboard set that resembles your favourite game. Simply rename proper file to "keyboard.def".

15. The game is too hard. Any tips?

Survival tips:
 * There is no food in Xenocide. Rest whenever you can.
 * Prepare calm place to rest. Damage doors, make a hole in the wares etc.
 * Find better h2h weapon as soon as possible.
 * Beetles are slow, avoid them. You don't have to kill all monsters!
 * Weaken distant enemies with ranged weapon, in close combat ‘e’xchange to ready melee weapon.
 * Target’s name color is yellow since half energy, red when dying.
 * Run away if your energy is low. You are faster than some enemies.

regards
Jakub Debski